.TH PSTFORGE 1 "July 2026" "PSTForge 1.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pstforge \- recover and split damaged Outlook PST files without modifying them
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pstforge info
.I SOURCE
.RI [ --json ]
.br
.B pstforge verify
.I SOURCE
.RI [ --mode " full|recovery" ]
.RI [ --json ]
.br
.B pstforge recover
.I SOURCE
.B --output
.I JOB-DIR
.RI [ --recovery " balanced|aggressive" ]
.RI [ --json ]
.br
.B pstforge split
.I SOURCE
.B --output
.I JOB-DIR
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.br
.B pstforge report
.I JOB-DIR
.RI [ --json ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
PSTForge opens an ANSI or Unicode PST read-only and writes new Unicode PST
files. The primary
.B split
command recovers readable native items and properties into independently
importable parts. Its default direct mode streams source data into an active
temporary PST and atomically publishes each validated part.
.PP
PSTForge never repairs or modifies the source. It refuses source symlinks,
unsafe output placement, incompatible existing job state, and output-name
conflicts.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B info
Report source identity, PST format, encryption, corruption flag, and library
versions without enumerating mail.
.TP
.B verify
Stream and account for readable content without creating a recovery job.
Recovery mode also examines deleted, recovered, and orphan collections.
.TP
.B recover
Create durable canonical recovery state without writing importable PST parts.
.TP
.B split
Recover content and write complete PST parts. The default maximum size is 4
GiB. One indivisible item larger than the requested limit is emitted alone as
a reported oversize part.
.TP
.B report
Recreate a summary from a completed or retained PSTForge job without reopening
the source.
.SH SPLIT OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --max-pst-size " SIZE"
Hard target for normal parts. Accepts IEC and SI byte suffixes. Default: 4GiB.
.TP
.BI --recovery " MODE"
Use
.B balanced
(default) or
.B aggressive
recovery. Aggressive mode also asks libpff to ignore allocation data and scan
fragments, so additional damaged candidates may have lower confidence.
.TP
.B --restartable
Persist recovered payloads so an interrupted job can resume. This costs about
one extra payload write and additional temporary disk space. Direct mode is
the default.
.TP
.B --resume
Resume a matching restartable job. Source digest, identity, configuration,
schema, and writer format must match.
.TP
.B --keep-work
Keep restartable payload storage after successful completion.
.TP
.B --json
Write one versioned JSON result to standard output.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --color " auto|always|never"
Control diagnostic color.
.TP
.BI --log-format " human|json"
Select the standard-error diagnostic format.
.TP
.B --quiet
Suppress progress diagnostics.
.TP
.B -v
Increase diagnostic verbosity. Repeat for more detail.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Complete success.
.TP
.B 1
Partial success with usable output and explicitly accounted omissions or
damage.
.TP
.B 2
Invalid command-line usage.
.TP
.B 3
Source or parser failure.
.TP
.B 4
Output or durable-state failure.
.TP
.B 5
Generated PST conformance failure.
.TP
.B 6
Internal or supervision failure.
.TP
.B 130
Interrupted by SIGINT or SIGTERM after checkpointing applicable state.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I JOB-DIR/parts/part-NNNN.pst
Atomically published PST output parts.
.TP
.I JOB-DIR/recovery.log
Bounded, aggregate human recovery record. Message subjects, addresses, bodies,
and attachment contents are excluded.
.TP
.I JOB-DIR/.pstforge/
Private ledger and temporary state. Payload spool data exists only for
restartable execution.
.TP
.I /usr/share/pstforge/schemas/
Installed public JSON result schemas.
.SH LIMITATIONS
PSTForge can preserve only content that libpff can expose and the output PST
format can represent. Corrupt or unsupported values are counted by reason.
Version 1.0 does not provide in-place PST repair, PST merging, OST conversion,
password cracking, attachment export, EML, Maildir, PDF, a GUI, or date/folder
partitioning. Direct jobs cannot resume; rerun them into a new empty output
directory. Restartable split additionally requires
.B pffinfo
and
.B readpst
for independent validation.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pffinfo (1),
.BR readpst (1)
